# Programming for Data Analysis #

---

### **Name: James McEneaney**
### **Course: Higher Diploma in Computing in Data Analytics, ATU Ireland**
### **Semester: Semester 2 2023**
### ** Project 2 **

---

## Overview ##

This repository contains my submission for Project 2 for the Programming and Scripting module of the Higher Diploma in Data Analytics from ATU. This project involves analysing various aspects of climate data from the Paleolithic era (oldest dataset goes back to 820,000 years ago) up to the present day. I also make predictions for future climate data based on recent trends and create a csv and json file which each contain the climate data I have used in this project.

I used Visual Studio Code (VS Code - version 1.85.1), to write my scripts and to upload them to a repository on GitHub for assessment.

I completed my project using Jupyter Notebook, ran through VS Code. I saved my project as a .ipynb file.

Libraries I downloaded to complete my project are matplotlib, numpy, pandas, seaborn and scikit-learn.


### How to execute my script ###

- Open VSCode. Go the search bar at the top and type '>'. 

- Search for Git: Clone.

- Select Clone from GitHub and press Enter.

- When prompted for the Repository URL, select clone from GitHub, then press Enter.

- Sign into Github, if prompted to.

- Enter the URL "https://github.com/jmce22/pfda_project2" into the repository field.

- Select which directory on your machine you would like to clone my repository to.

- Select "Open" when asked if you want to open the cloned repository.


My project is contained within the file "pfda_project2.ipynb". 

Other files and folders found in my repository include:
- A folder called 'climate_data' containing the source data files I used for the project. Also found here are the csv and json files I compiled and exported as part of the project.
- A folder called 'images' where I saved all plots generated by my code
- a gitignore file
- this README file

To execute my script on VS Code:
- open the file "pdfa_project2.ipynb" 
- click the 'Run All' button at the top of the screen.

This should cause the script to run, including saving down plots into the folder called 'images' and exporting a 'csv' file and 'json' file to the folder called 'climate_data'.

Note: If amending code, be mindful that changes made to code further down the page may impact on the earlier code; for example, if all of the code is ran, and then an attempt is made to amend superficial details of a plot of one of the uploaded datasets, an error may occur as the contents of the dataframe which is being plotted may have been amended further down the page. In such a case, a solution is to **clear all outputs and run the code in it's entirity**.

